- 👋 Hi, I’m @julienmatuszak, I'm 43 and I work as a freelance linguist.
- 👀 I’m interested in all things related to programming but mostly linguistic applications, and a bit blockchain technologies.
- 🌱 I followed a few curricula in Web programming and worked as a Web implementation engineer for some time but I prefer to work on core applications and as a freelancer on personal projects.
- 💞️ I’m looking for a beginner codding buddy to create any kind of applications : Web App developement-projects, basic cryptocurrency projects, etc. I prefer to work on small applications with one single purpose than monolithic monstrosities.
- 📫 How to reach me julienmatuszak@gmail.com / @MatuszakJulien / +370 678 38473
- Main project :
    - Currently following the void to fill in the cracks of the financial system that allowed such a huge number of cryptocurrency projects. I believe that only few of them will manage to solve the 
    Surprisingly, it's not that difficult to create a basic cryptocurrency. This is likely why so many projects have come to existence to this day. What is hard is to create a currency that will meet all the requirements of a reserve currency that could compete against the dollar (eurodollar system). The best way to describe a reserve currency is Robert Sullivan's 3 pillars: liquidity, adjustment and confidence. The eurodollar system meets these requirements but is however facing a confidence crisis. It needs to be replaced.
    It won't be replaced by a CBDC or Bitcoin anytime soon. In my opinion, even though BitCore/Bitcoin if a fully-fledged cryptocurrency project, it does not qualify as a potential reserve currency as it only partially complete the 3 pillars. In fact, liquidity will be achieved when fast Internet access is worldwide,  likely thanks to Starlink, adjustment is helped by the Lightning infrastructure but is far from replacing the eurodollar system and its millions of transactions and confidence is even trickier as it takes time and also Bitcoin is attacked by authorities. As for the Ethereum platform, its potential of adjustment is bigger than Lightning, but it faces the same problem of liquidity and confidence.
    So more than PoW of PoS, Proof-of-Confidence is necessary. But I believe that confidence can be achieved by usability and Greshem's law: a "bad" currency can chase a "good" one. After all, this is what the dollar did to gold. Bitcoin could do that and is doing that to an extent to the dollar. I like the patient idea that Bitcoin will slowly convince the minds unlike the dollar did, as it was enforced by the ultradominance of the USA during the 20th century.
    But for a cryptocurrency to replace the dollar, the cryptocurrency trilemma must be rethought. The trilemma states that the conditions of existence of a cryptocurrency are scalability, security and decentralization. The first two match the adjustment principle above. The last one is unnecessary IMO. Whether we like it or not, we are heading towards a multipolar world, but obvioulsy not a fully decentralized world. The structure of states will likely dominate the geopolitical landscape for decades, if not centuries. Yes, right, Bitcoin is people's money but people live within structures that they depend on and as much as I would like it to be different, that's just the way it is.
    So to sum up, we're lacking liquidity (hopefully reached soon) and confidence. You see where I'm going, confidence is a subtle compromise between the people and the state. The state has to believe it is in control and people have to believe that states do not interefere. That's where the bottom of the problem is. That is a political problem but also a technical one. Where there is a necessity, there is a way. We need a multipolar world, just like we need a sufficiently decentralized money. Yes, gold could fill that void but let's face it, digital currencies are way nimbler.
    Yes, I believe sharding is a good compromise, on a state-level. In other words, we would have clusters of centralized digital national currencies within a decentralized net. We solve the political and the technical dilemma this way. In that case, a digital currency such as Ether is the closest to this compromise. I would like to either work on the orientation of this project towards this goal or a brand new project, likely on the Ethereum platform as it would save a considerable amount of time.
    Since I have no visibility for the project but time to achieve it, my initial plan is to complete it in 7 years.

- Other ideas :
    - React TS / JAVA Spring / PostGreSQL : We developed an availability tracker during the Sourcery curriculum, based on the great react-calendar-timeline library and associated with Java Spring for the BE. The application had full login (with security handling), user management, team management, time-off time management and availability time-off display features including editing/adding/deleting functionalities, and an API with full CRUD features for interaction with the BE. I'm planning to recreate this app and add more features like scrolling possibility that would allow to switch from a month timeline to a day timeline, etc.
    - Assembly : write a NASM script that could execute a small CLI for Linux, such as a text editor, or basic mathematical problems, e.g. 2nd degree equation solver, or memory management.
    - C/CPP/Qt : Create a card game with special rules. I am pretty fond of "belote", a Southern France card game. Rules are pretty close to bridge, with trump/no trump and contract valuation assessment. I'd like to mix those rules for this unique card game, that I'd fancy calling "Trumps".
    - Python : work on everyday small scripts when required by Brilliant's daily challenges, a little bit like puzzles in chess :).
    - Hacking : my understanding is that hackers tries proven techniques to access data from secure vaults, in order. Right now, the Log4J vulnerability, which is present on a big part of worldwide servers, is likely prone to attacks in 2022. The idea is to choose likely low-security servers and hack them with state-of-the-art techniques to communicate their vulnerabilities to their owners.

<!---
julienmatuszak/julienmatuszak is a ✨ special ✨ repository because its `README.md` (this file) appears on your GitHub profile.
You can click the Preview link to take a look at your changes.
--->
